---
layout: post
title:  "Understanding RoI Align"
date:   2020-08-04 19:52:13 +0100
categories: jekyll update
---
I thought I would do a post on RoIAlign which is a pooling method used in localisation models. It is quite simple method once you understand how its different parameters interact.

It has the following inputs:

- An bounding box represented in terms of its top-left and bottom-right coordinates (see this post for more details about bounding boxes): `[y1, x1, y2, x2]`. These don't need to be integers.
- An image or a set of feature maps of shape `[H, W, C]`

Typically what happens in a localisation model is that the model has identified several regions of interest in an image which are contained within the bounding boxes. For subsequent steps we only want to use the regions of the image within the bounding boxes, discarding parts outside. Since typically there will be several bounding boxes per image generally with different dimensions, a pooling method is usually applied to give the boxes the same dimensions before they can be used downstream. 

The steps are as follows:

1. Divide the bounding box into a fixed number of bins. You get a `pool_height x pool_width` grid of blocks. The blocks don't have integer dimensions. It is an important feature of RoIAlign that values are not quantised. 

2. Divide each block further into a grid of `num_samples x num_samples` bins. Again these bins don't have integer dimensions.

3. Sample the feature map values at the points in the centre of each of the bins via bilinear interpolation.

4. Find the average of the samples across all the bins of each block. This yields `pool_height x pool_width` feature map (or crop of the feature map) which is the output.

Now how do you think we can generate the sampling points?

1. Generate the centre points of a `(pool_height * num_samples) x (pool_width * num_samples)` grid. (See the bounding box post for more details)

2. Normalise these points to lie in `[0, 1]` by dividing by `[pool_height - 1, pool_width - 1]`

3. Multiply them by `[roi_height - 1, roi_width - 1]` to project to the RoI.

4. Offset the points by adding `[y1, x1]`.

One way to interpret this process is to consider that instead of a grid of `height * width` blocks of dimensions `1 x 1` as we normally have when working with images, we now have a grid of `(pool_height * num_samples) x (pool_width * num_samples)` of `(roi_height/(pool_height * num_samples)) x (roi_height/(pool_height * num_samples))`



<!-- RoI Align is a pooling method that is very simple really but not explained well in the original MaskRCNN paper.  -->


<!-- Take a look at the paper however and find out why they decided to use this method.

<button class='collapse-why-roi-align'>Show/Hide</button>
<div class='collapse-why-roi-align'>
<div markdown="1">
Previously a method called RoI-Pooling was in use. In this method the predicted bounding box is discretised and used to crop a patch from the image. This patch is then divided into a fixed number of blocks as shown below and each block is aggregated to give a single value. 

Discretisation is involved yet again here if the number of blocks does not fully divide the height or width. The problem is that due to discretisation you are not taken information from slightly different parts of the image than what the model had predicted and this results in inaccurate information getting sent downstream. 

They show that this method is particularly important for instance segmentation tasks where predictions need to match on a pixel-level which means slight shifts due to discretisation cause performance to deteriorate. However, it also turns out to work better than RoIPooling for bounding-box only models. 
</div>
</div> -->
